# Project 2 - The Gold EuroBitty Bot

#### UM FinTech BootCamp 2021

#### June 22th, 2021

---

## Team Members:

- Jonathan Eidam
- William Jones
- Sheldon Palm

---

### Project Description

- We will be using three different assets to generate buy and sell signals.
- One FOREX pair, EURUSD (Euro vs US Dollar), one cryptocurrency pair, BTCUSD (Bitcoin vs US Dollar), and one metal, XAUUSD (Gold Spot vs US Dollar).
- **The goal of our project will be to create an algo trading bot that will execute buy/sell signals generated by our predictive model.**

### Hypothesis of Our Project

- EURUSD and BTCUSD have observed relationships with Gold.
- When Gold moves long, so does EURUSD. But, BTCUSD shorts.
- When Gold shorts, so does EURUSD. But, BTCUSD moves long.
- Using this information, we will create buy/sell signals for EURUSD and BTCUSD based off of the directional bias of Gold.

### Model Summary

- 50-day short term moving average
- 100-day long term moving average
- Bollinger Bands

These moving averages were used to determine crossover points. We created a predictive model using machine learning with indicators using short and long expontential weighted moving averages (ewm). The ewm standard deviation to indicate volitilty. Bollinger Bands were also used as an indicator for the predictive model.

- RandomForest Model

We used a 70/30 test/train split and used the 3 indicators above as predictive training indicators.

- Expand on Random Forest

### Datasets To Be Used

- Data sets provided by Alpha Vantage for EURUSD and BTCUSD.
- Data set provided by Investing.com for XAUUSD.

### Data Cleanup & Model Training

Describe the exploration and cleanup process.
Discuss any problems that arose with preparing the data or training the model that you didn't anticipate.
Discuss the overall training process and highlight anything of interest with the training process: Cloud resources used, training time required, issues with training.

We built a simple moving average model to determine buy and sell signals. This model we used to compare to the machine learning model.

We used Aplha Vantage's API to gather data for EURUSD and BTCUSD. Able to gather historical data for Gold: date, and closing prices.

Model training, we found feature points (crossover signal, bollinger signal, and volitity trend signal) for ewms and the bollinger bands. With positive returns being the thing wwe wanted to predict.

### Model Evaluation and Discussion

Discuss the techniques you used to evaluate the model performance.

Embed image here.

Discuss Back testing results

Discuss randomForest results

Culmulative returns

Accuracy score for the predictive models

---

#### References

- https://www.alphavantage.co/
- https://pypi.org/project/yfinance/
- https://www.investing.com/currencies/xau-usd-historical-data
